# REST Countries API

No installations or API keys needed. Use this [GitHub page](https://evenstevenh.github.io/country-react-app/) to check it out!

A project to practice front-end development! It integrates the [REST Countries API](https://restcountries.com/) to pull and display data about countries, such as their flag, population, and capital. I had [previously created this](https://github.com/EvenStevenH/country-app) using vanilla JavaScript, and I wanted to refactor it using React.

I identified possible modular components from my original DOM structure, such as a `CountryCard` for displaying information about each country. I also extracted reusable logic to make custom hooks, such as `useTheme()` (for persisted theme settings). This would be paired with `ThemeContext`, which handled global state via Context API and provided data using the `children` prop. Elements were organized using the `JSX` format's HTML-like markup, alongside conditional rendering for replacing manual DOM manipulation. For example, short-circuit evaluation like `{!selectedCountry && ...` instead of `countryList.style.display = "none"` for displaying the list of countries.

In my custom hook `useFetch()` for fetching data, I used `useState` for local state to respect immutability, loading and error states, and `useEffect` for rerendering whenever data is available. I made sure to use dependencies throughout the project for preventing unnecessary re-renders (ex. `useMemo` in `useFilteredCountries` to return a memoized result instead of recomputing it if no dependencies have changed since the last call), and a stable `key` prop for `CountryList` for efficiently updating/reordering DOM nodes. Finally, FOUC (flash of unstyled content) had bypassed my script that originally dealt with it. It may have been caused by a new order of HTML painting, so I added additional logic to load before the React module script.
